Now that we have our table, we can add some data to it.
By annotating our project class with the entity.
Annotation Spring JP's object relational mapper understands that we need to create a relational table.
The columns of our table were derived from the column annotation that we applied to every single field.
We were able to do all of that without writing any SQL.
The object relational mapper takes care of everything behind the scenes, but right now our table is
empty.
So in this lesson, you will add some data to the student table.
JPA provides a CRUD repository that we can use to save entities into our database.
Once we have our CRUD repository in place, then we can make a post request with payload that consists
of JSON.
The JSON that we send over will contain every single field except for the ID.
We will serialize every JSON property into our Java entity and entity is just a Java object that spring
Java can work with two JSON properties as you can see where serialized into two fields, the students
ID for the time being remains null.
And now from JPA Se Crud Repository, we're going to save the entity.
The crud repository offers a save method.
So by virtue of simply, quote unquote, saving our student object behind the scenes, what's going
to happen is the object relational layer is going to take care of all the hard work and create a new
student record inside of our student table and inside the primary key column.
Our ID that uniquely identifies this record is going to get auto generated.
So first I'll show you how to do everything we just described using plain old SQL.
So here we've got our table of students.
What I'm going to do is insert two new rows into the student table with the following values.
So in the first row, we've got Harry Potter with an ID of one.
And the second row we're inserting a new student called her Mini Granger with an ID of two.
Let's run these SQL commands, and it just now inserted two new rows inside of our student table.
What I can do is click on our student table and it should auto generate a query that allows us to view
every single record.
And here you can see that we saved two new students into our database, into our table.
Now, once again, we're not here to write SQL statements.
Spring JPA provides an object relational mapper that acts as a layer between our application and the
database itself so we can define all of our logic using Java objects and the object relational layer
will take care of everything behind the scenes.
So you'll remember that step one was that Spring Java provides a crud repository that can save entities
into our database in order to set up a repository that interact with an SQL database.
All we have to do is define an interface that inherits from CRUD repository inside generics.
The first parameter is the entity that you want to save, and the second parameter is the data type
of its ID, which is going to be long.
We're going to use identifiers of type long to uniquely identify each student entity inside of our table.
Now notice that this repository is an interface.
It's not a class.
That's because behind the scenes spring JPA will provide will automatically provide an implementation
of this interface during their time.
An object will be created from this implementation and it will exist inside of the spring container
as a bean.
And now this repository bean will inherit all of the methods that the crud repository exposes, like
save find by ID exists by and so on and so forth.
We can then auto wire this repository being where we need it and use all of its methods.
So back here inside a student repository java, what I'm going to do is define an interface, public
interface.
I will call it student repository.
And this interface is going to inherit from CRUD repository.
We're going to use this repository to read, update and delete student entities.
And every single student entity that we save will be identified by IDs of type long.
And perfect now that we've defined our interface behind the scenes.
Spring Boot is going to auto generate a bean.
That bean is going to inherit all of the methods that our CRUD repository exposes.
So methods like save, save all find by ID exists by ID find all so on and so forth.
We have all of these methods at our disposal.
So what I'm going to do is go inside of our student service implementation.
And right over here, I can auto wire our student repository bean.
So I will auto wire.
Whatever being exists inside of our spring container into the following variable.
Student Repository.
Student repository.
Okay.
Now you'll remember that the CRUD repository offers a save method that we can use to save, in this
case, student entities.
So inside of the save student method by simply calling student repository dot save student.
The object relational layer is going to take care of all the hard work and save a new student record
inside of our database.
All right, step two.
Now that our CRUD repository is in place, we can make a post request with the appropriate JSON payload.
Let's start by setting up the request.
So I'm going to go to a post man.
And the request collection that I currently have is something that we set up during the workbooks.
If you for some reason don't have the same setup that I do, download the file inside of the resources
folder of this lesson.
Once you do, what you're going to do is delete whatever collection you already have.
Press on import and import the JSON file that I provided for you.
It's going to know how to interpret the JSON file and create the following requests.
All right.
Now, this is the post request that I intend on sending.
There should be something inside the body in this case, Harry Potter, with a birth with the following
birth date.
And before I send over this post request, what I'm going to do is go back to my student controller
and we're going to configure the handler method that intercepts it, save student.
So here what we're going to do is auto wire the student service bin.
A wired student service.
Student service?
And when a post request is made, request body is going to d serialize the incoming JSON properties
into a student object.
And here what we can do is call.
Student service dot save student students.
Whatever student that gets passed in our student repository is going to save them to the H to database
that our app is connected to.
So let's actually try it out.
Well, I seem to be having an error, and that's because it could not find the student service being.
And silly me.
I'm going to have to add the service annotation over here.
Now, notice that you do not need to put a repository annotation here because Spring Boot is automatically
going to create an implementation of this interface and that implementation will exist as a bean.
So no need to put it here.
You still need to add the service annotation to all of these classes so that spring boot is able to
scan for them and create a bean out of them.
For some reason my imports are not working, so let me just copy this over.
And do the same thing over here.
Let's get it over with.
Okay.
What I'm going to do actually, is rerun my application in debug mode.
Not a breakpoint over here.
Here.
End here, and I'll go to the student controller.
Let's add one more over here.
So let's go ahead and make this post request.
So here you can see the properties from the incoming JSON are getting serialized into a Java object.
For the time being, the idea remains null.
That's going to get auto generated later.
But what's going to happen is our student repository is simply going to save this to our SQL database.
So let me just press next and get it over with.
All right, I'll go back over here.
Let me just copy this query, because it's going to tell me to reconnect.
And beautiful.
I hope you can appreciate that we did not have to write any SQL to save this data into our table.
All we had to do was invoke a very intuitive dot save method and the object relational layer that exists
between our repository and the database itself takes care of all the hard work.
You'll notice that an ID of one was automatically generated for the row.
Remember that the primary key column uniquely identifies every row inside of this table, and then after
the student gets successfully saved, you'll notice that the save method actually returns the student
that was saved in the form of an object.
If we go back to our student controller, we're actually sending this object back as a response.
The resulting object that gets returned inside of our response entity is serialized into JSON before
being sent back to the consumer.
And here you can see an entity with an ID of one named Harry Potter with the following birth date was
saved into our database.
This is further confirmation to the consumer that their request was processed successfully and their
data was saved successfully.
201 created.
Nice.
So to recap in this lesson, you added rows to the student table.
First we created our rows using plain old SQL, but we're not here to write any SQL statements.
Courtesy of Spring GPUs, CRUD or repository, we can interact with our database.
All we had to do was specify a very intuitive dot save method and a new student was added to the student's
table.